---
authors: dennislwm
title: ShapeUp or FadeOut
description: A technique for piping an idea from one state to another using modern frameworks.
piped_from: Idea
piped_to: RFD
state: prediscussion
labels: technique, framework, state, idea
---

# Introduction

Using a real life case study, namely [dennislwm/playscribe](https://github.com/dennislwm/playscribe).

# Pipes

A pipe represents a shift in direction to another modern framework such as ShapeUp, Hypowork, etc.

An idea that goes through one or more pipes represents a work-in-progress ("WIP") material before a final product.

Each WIP material will be tracked using a source code versioning tool such as git. However a final product should not be a sum of all WIP materials, but rather a polished real product.

## Template

Each WIP is a separate markdown file from the previous WIP or idea, and consists of:

1. Frontmatter: stateful attributes of an idea and stateless attributes associated with the current framework.
  * Stateful attributes are long-lived attributes, such as `authors`, `title`, `description`
  * Stateless attributes are short-lived attributes relevant to WIP in the current framework, such as `state` and `labels` for RFD.

2. Breadcrumbs: link to both previous and next WIP markdown files, if any.
  * `piped_from`: Always start from an `Idea`, and links back to a previous framework.
  * `piped_to`: Current framework of WIP. A `README.md` contains the final product, hence all WIPs should be saved in a separate markdown file, such as `01_RFD.md`.

3. Content: Apply the current framework to WIP.

## Case Study

1. An idea started from a ChatGPT YouTube Summarizer, which performed poorly as its results did not provide accuracy, relevance or specific details in its summary.

2. This idea was piped to a ShapeUp framework.

* Integrating one slice requires identifying any rabbit holes to reduce the risk of fat-tail timeline.

* Transcribing a YouTube video is a possible rabbit hole as it could result in inaccurate transcripts, high costs for paid services, etc.

* A decision was made to use YouTube's autogenerated subtitle for transcribing a YouTube video, as it is free and results in a highly accurately transcript.

* The transcript is downloaded as a JSON file, which requires a converter to extract the text. Fortunately, searching for a converter on Google yielded a simple `jq` command to extract the relevant text.

2. The idea stalled at the ShapeUp framework due to an increased risk of fat-tail timeline.

* Summarizing a transcript using ChatGPT is a possible rabbit hole as it could result in an inaccurate, irrelevant and generic summary.

3. This idea was piped to an `abandoned` state.

4. This idea took root again and was piped to the previous ShapeUp framework after  discovery of a tool [danielmiessler/fabric](https://github.com/danielmiessler/fabric).

* Summarizing a transcript using a the `fabric` tool results in an accurate, relevant and detailed summary.

* Integration of one slice started by leveraging and applying a similar scaffolding design from the [SudokuCliBot](https://dennislwm.netlify.app/posts/look-mum-no-servers) automation.

* As the risk of a fat-tail timeline had decreased significantly, the idea shifted left quickly from a bet, to build and eventually a product.

* However, `yt-dlp` stopped working due to a change in policy from YouTube as GitHub's pipeline IPs have been apparently blocked.

5. This idea has been piped to an `abandoned` state again.

* The risk of a fat-tail timeline has increased sharply, as finding a workaround for the `yt-dlp` may be a rabbit hole.

* Also, the usage of other services to transcribe a YouTube video is a possible rabbit hole as it could result in inaccurate transcripts, high costs for paid services, etc.